Our project is Java breakout ball game, which is most commonly known as Big Game, also ball and Big
Game.
This is very old style retro game, not very high end version of game.
But our main motto behind this project is to learn how we can create Java swing Java JWT uses, plus
how we can incorporate some object oriented because game is mostly based on object oriented parts or
programming.
So our main aim is to create some object oriented classes, object oriented programs here.
So this is our project.
So let us see what is our basic project aim to?
Create a Java program which is very useful to create a ball game, which is basically a breakout ball
game.
I'm giving the name, you can say, as the big game, also breaking big game also.
Then steps of development is how we can set up our project then.
Understanding different tools.
What is AWP and what are the things?
Parameters.
I'm going to use Java basic concepts.
I'm going to tell you then Java OP, which is object oriented programming concepts, Java Swing and
how we are going to deploy it as a final.
So if you know how we can create UI for Windows or any platform system within a Java like in a 500 is
a tincture to provide a module of GUI if you know that's very basic and not very higher version of guys.
But there are two categories in Java and one is Java effects and Java swing.
Java Graphics is mostly built on Syn builder and it contains libraries and different things, but Java
Swing comes with JDK.
Now that JDK 16 after 11 version of JDK Java thing Swing is completely incorporated within the JDK,
so no need to deploy or no need to fetch another resources from external libraries.
So it's very useful.
Second thing, which is final development, six part final deployment.
So I'm going to deploy.
So that's a basic thing.
I'm going to deploy on my machine only.
But if you know this, you can use Java files and you can create that things.
Also, you can create files of Java files also later to find out those things.
And basically I'm going to create game.
I'm not going to create there like front page how the game is like loop so you can change the UI later
also for that purpose.
So let us understand basic our application requirements.
Java libraries I'm going to use in then JDK Java swing, how I'm going to design JDK and I'm going to
use your intel idea as my main.
ID because I'm using it.
It's brain brainchild and it's very useful.
You can use any other you can use Eclipse also and NetBeans also.
That's fine.
Let us see.
These are not application requirements.
Exactly.
It's game requirements.
So in our game, there are three components.
One is pedal.
So while I am telling components, remember these are extra object variable.
Or you can see that's our the object in our program when it's pedal, pedal is basically the thing which
is moving around over that window when ball which is going to hit to the bricks and bricks which are
going to break and we are getting the points then we use we are going to create a game cycle which is
a timer basically.
Remember, we never work with angles in these things.
We are simply change the direction with top, bottom, left, right.
Remember that if you know the structure of gaming technology, we never work with angles mostly why
we are not working with angles because angles are defined.
Like if I am specifying 45 degrees, it will again call it 45 degrees.
So there may be some bugs.
So what we can do, we can work with top, bottom, left, right, so we can mention the direction of
that ball later.
So I will tell you while deploying or developing how we are going to develop these things.
So let us see how I'm going to create these things.
So if you know the thing, how this is going to work basically.
So this is the welcome page of Intel idea, which is my idea, which is I'm going to create then hit
enter a new project here.
So wait for some time.
It will deploy you a new project.
For you.
And once this is done, you can check your score.
Go to the Java only.
No need to change anything.
Go to Java only.
For me it's showing the different things you can check for spring and anything but go to Java.
No need to select any library.
Just select your project SDK, which is for me sixteenths.
If you haven't downloaded any SDK or JDK, basically you can download and JDK here, work with that,
then hit next.
Then next.
Then let me give you a name.
So for me, I'm giving breakout ballgame.
So wait for some time to respond.
So, Brick, you mentioned the capital break out.
Ball game like this.
And no need to specify anything.
If you want to change module or into content truth, you can change after that heat finish, so it will
take time to create a basic template for you.
So wait for some time in your idea to create this partitions and it will go with that part because it's
a higher version of ID, so it will create all the default things which is required.
So wait for some time.
So once this is done, you can check here.
It's currently deploying.
So you can check.
It's currently running.
For me.
So now we are within IED.
So in this ID, I will tell you how we are going to perform and how we are going to fetch everything.
So.
So once this is done, go to this C file or SLC folder.
There is nothing is created basically currently which is basically for the source.
So in the source files we are going to deploy and we are going to create each class's, each methods
basically.
So wait for some time.
It's giving me the loading because it's scanning for me.
That's why it's loading.
When this is done, you can go with two approaches.
No.
One is you can create what you can do.
You can create some sub package here, some folder subfolder.
You can see subdirectory.
Also, you can say and you can create classes within related to that.
So currently we required only three main methods like we can deploy with three main methods within that
that three main methods we are going to create different, different classes.
But while deploying this you can remember you can always create three different packages.
So I'm not going with sub packages, concepts, I'm giving you a direct what you can say class here,
so wait for some time.
It will do because my system load is very high.
So according to your system, it will take time.
So once this is done, you can check this is now done for me.
So the scanning and everything is, you know, done.
Now one thing you have to do is just click right, click on See.
Then click new.
Or go to new.
It will load for some time.
And Java class.
Now first Java class we are going to work with.
It is basically game play.
Basically we are going to create your gameplay.
So this is basic class we are going to create.
First, remember why I'm creating this class gameplay.
The gameplay is going to work like main architecture behind our any program gameplay, which is going
to perform all the game functions.
The breaking part of brick and everything is going to work here only.
So now it's going to create a gameplay function for me.
So let us check whether it's created.
Okay, now it's created gameplay function.
Let me zoom.
So now you can what you can do.
You can close this part also.
And let us check the gameplay functions, what I'm going to work with.
So first gameplay is basically it's going to extend to Japan.
Japan is basically for Java team Japan.
Implements.
No.
It is a basic lower class of G panel.
So as you can see, it's giving me the error.
So thing you need to import some files later so we will import that files later because it's defaulting.
Listener.
He is not a Java a thing.
Oh.
And what I'm going to need is basically action.
Action listener.
So action listener.
Which is another JWT.
And let me create one store and let me import Java.
X dot swing.
Not.
Start.
So currently this thing is not running for me.
Now insert this.
We need to create different, different methods.
So I will tell you what methods.
What methods we are going to work.
But let us.
Assume that we created Japan and everything.
But what is this?
Japan all means?
Japan is for the creation of any window thing in this.
So.
If you know the basic thing in this, it's very easy.
So let me close this and let me incorporate this and we will create another thing here.
Panel is not completely done here.
So I imported 232 things java a w t these things and later we will need this also import java dot util
which is basically for utilization of data utilities.
So for this I created let me create one private boolean.
Private Boolean play, which is always false at the start.
False at the start.
So let me mention as a false within the start.
Then one private int score score is always zero at the start.
So let me mention score at zero and let me tell you why I created these two functions and and why it's
private.
So let us assume you are playing game.
But at the start of game your score is 100.
That's invalid or or else user can change the code.
If it's public, user can change their code and they can cheat in the game also.
So for that purpose I'm creating this.
Then I'm considering here.
My bricks are static here as a.
So BRICS let me mention that 48 only I'm considering my brix of 48 then private time.
But I with time I can create in this job a private timer.
Which is basically going to function with time.
And once I'm importing this, no need to use that also.
Okay.
Oh, I don't know why, but.
Let me import these also.
And now.
There is maybe some delay also.
So let me mention delay of some 8 seconds here
to provide the delay then.
But I await in a exposition I'm going to mention.
Clear exposition is this three?
Let me mention 310.
So if you know these things like X and y axis, you should remember that three, ten or otherwise.
You can copy this then.
But I went into ball position and to mention so bowl pose x x axis position is one pointy always always
means while at the starting point then private end ball pose.
Y is equal to again 3050 and mentioning that so coordinate things or pixel things you can remember.
And I need to mention x direction.
Bollixed direction.
Let me mention that is minus one direction is minus one always and private ball or.
So this ball wide direction and it's minus two always so it will go up per part, not the downward part.
And I will create your one map generator.
So I will later create that map generator class and everything.
But.
Do not return, which is basically for the creation of map.
So I will create my app generator class later.
But remember, I'm going to create this.
Now let us create one oblique gameplay here, which is basically constructor I'm going to use here.
And inside this constructor.
So let me mention to pass the value.
Construct.
So to pass values.
So I'm using your constructor to pass values.
So basically, if, you know, constructor is basically used for this and as it's public, I'm going
to create this.
So if you know I'm using my generator again, I haven't created any map generator class, but I'm using
this as.
So for my toilets, my map by default.
And I will create that part.
So that's it for this.
In the further part, we will check how we are going to develop and deploy this.
All these things help you understand.
In the later part, we will check how we are going to create map generator and then classes, game plays,
basic command.
So I started with this.
If you want to check out how I'm going to create map generator, you should look out first for map generator
part.